Website mockup generator - PR #2 (#1578)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/website_mockup_generator/README.md

![Coding cat](https://media.giphy.com/media/LmNwrBhejkK9EFP504/giphy.gif)

### 1) index.html

First, let us write the required HTML code for the website mockup generator. You will be having the following code in `index.html` by default :

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
    <title>repl.it</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```
#### The site title
In the `<head>` section, Replace the text inside the title tag to the title you want. In my case, I am replacing it with 'Website Mockup Generator'.

```html 
<title>Website Mockup Generator</title>
```

#### Changing the body background color and alignment
In order to change the background color and the text alignment inside the `body`, specify a class called `body` in the body tag. We will be providing CSS stylings for the `body` class later.

```html
<body class="body">
```

#### The heading
In the `<body>` we will add a heading inside `<h1>...</h1>` tags.

```html
<h1>Website Mockup Generator</h1>
```

#### Placing a text input field

> In order to place a text input field to get the website from the URL, use the following line to create a text input with a placeholder 'Enter the website' and provide id to the input as 'websiteAddress'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to place a text input field to get the website from the URL, use the following line to create a text input with a `placeholder` 'Enter the website' and provide `id` to the input as `websiteAddress`.

```

Reviewer: code related words should get a special formatting of code

```html
<input type="text" id="websiteAddress" placeholder='Enter the website'>
```

#### Placing the buttons

> We need two buttons to generate the mockup and to download respectively. Use the `<button>` tag twice to place the buttons. Provide the button label in between the `<button></button>` tags. Provide the id as `submitButton` for the 'Generate mockup' button and `Download` for 'Download' button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need two buttons to generate the mockup and to download respectively. Use the `<button>` tag twice to place the buttons. Provide the button label in between the `<button></button>` tags. Provide the `id` as `submitButton` for the 'Generate mockup' button and `Download` for 'Download' button.

```

```html
<button type="submit" id="submitBtn" onclick='generateMockup();'>Generate Mockup</button>
<button id="Download">Download</button>
```

#### Generated mockup image

> We will be using an `<img>` tag to display the generated mockup image. Provide the id as `resultImg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be using an `<img>` tag to display the generated mockup image. Provide the `id` as `resultImg`.

```

```html
<img id='resultImg'>
```

#### Final index.html code:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
    <title>Website Mockup Generator</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body">
    <h1>Website Mockup Generator</h1>

>     <input type="text" id="websiteAdress" placeholder='Enter the website'>

Reviewer: typo "websiteAdress"

    <br><br>

>     <button type="submit" id="submitBtn" onclick='generateMockup();'>Generate Mockup</button>

Reviewer: this semicolon can be removed, it will look better and it still works!

    <button id="Download">Download</button>
    <img id='resultImg'>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

And that's it! We have completed writing our HTML. Your mockup generator should be looking similar to this :

![Mockup generator with only HTML](https://cloud-cg4k9mn15.vercel.app/0mockupgenerator-html.png)

### 2) style.css

The style.css file is used to add styles to our website. You can optionally use your own CSS to make our site look better according to your wish!

#### Adding custom font
Import a custom font from Google fonts using the below code :

```css
@import url("https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Poppins:wght@400;500;600&display=swap");
* {
  font-family: "Poppins", sans-serif;
}
```

#### Customizing the `<body>` style

> Now, let us customize the body style. Change the body background using `background-color: red;`. Change the body text color into white using `color : white;`. To make the website look better, let us align the items using `align-items: center;`. Finally, the CSS class for the body will be similar :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let us customize the `<body>` tag. we will change the background color to and the text color to white. To make the website look better, let us align our items to center using `align-items` and `justify-content`:
```

Reviewer: this way, it will look better so that the person first reads what we will be doing and then actually implements it

```css
body {
  background-color: red;
  color: #fff;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  }
```

Now, provide padding and remove the outline of the text fields using the below code :

```css
input {
  padding: 0 10px;
  outline: none;
}
```

Next, create the following CSS classes to make the input fields look more attractive. Though this is optional, I would recommend you to add this :

```css

> #websiteAdress {

Reviewer: typo

  height: 40px;
  width: 400px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: none;
  margin: 0 0 15px 0;
}

.color_cont {
  height: 40px;
  width: 420px;
  background: #fff;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: none;
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: flex-start;
  margin: 0 0 15px 0;
}

#color_demo {
  width: 30px;
  height: 30px;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background: #7108b6;
  height: 30px;
  margin: 0 5px;
}

.color_cont input {
  height: 30px;
  width: 350px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
}

> ```

Reviewer: this might be tricky for beginners, please explain what's happening

The CSS class for the button will go as follows :

```css
button {
  height: 40px;
  width: 400px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background: #00000069;
  color: #fff;
  background-blend-mode: screen, color-dodge, overlay, difference, normal;
  border: none;
  box-shadow: 0 8px 32px 0 rgba(31, 38, 135, 0.37);
  cursor: pointer;

> }

Reviewer: lacking explanation

```

Provide width and margin for the generated mockup image by using the below CSS properties :

```css
#resultImg {
  width: 50%;
  margin: 10px;
}
```

> Finally, create a CSS class called `cont` and provide the follow properties. We have used the `cont` class in the HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, create a CSS class called `cont` and provide the following properties. We have used the `cont` class in the HTML.

```

Reviewer: please specify "where" at "we have used the cont class in HTML"

Reviewer: i mean, which element do we use the cont class

```css
.cont {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  flex-direction: column;
}
```

<details><summary>Your final CSS code should look similar to this:</summary>
  
```css
@import url("https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Poppins:wght@400;500;600&display=swap");
* {
  font-family: "Poppins", sans-serif;
}

body {
  background-color: red;
  color: #fff;
  align-items: center;
}

input {
  padding: 0 10px;
  outline: none;
}

/*Website address input*/

> #websiteAdress {

Reviewer: typo

  background: #fff;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: none;
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: flex-start;
  margin: 0 0 15px 0;
}

/*Color demo*/
#color_demo {
  width: 30px;
  height: 30px;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background: #7108b6;
  height: 30px;
  margin: 0 5px;
}

.color_cont input {
  height: 30px;
  width: 350px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
}

button {
  height: 40px;
  width: 400px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  background: #00000069;
  color: #fff;
  background-blend-mode: screen, color-dodge, overlay, difference, normal;
  border: none;
  box-shadow: 0 8px 32px 0 rgba(31, 38, 135, 0.37);
  cursor: pointer;
}

#resultImg {
  width: 50%;
  margin: 10px;
}

.cont {
  display: flex;
  align-items: center;
  justify-content: center;
  flex-direction: column;
}
```
</details>

You can customize the styles and make it look better if you wish.

### 3) script.js

The script.js file contains the required JavaScript code. The aim of the JavaScript code is: 
- To get the website address from the text input
- Generate a mockup for the website by pressing 'Generate Mockup' button
- Display the mockup as an image

> - Allow users to download the image by pressing 'Download' button

Reviewer: fullstops missing

Let us implement the above steps one by one :

> #### Getting the elements from HTML in JS by their Id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Getting the elements from HTML in JavaScript by their `id`

```

> Firstly, we will be getting the elements from HTML into JavaSript by using their id using the following code :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, we will be getting the elements from HTML into JavaSript by using their `id` using the following code :

```

```javascript
const resultImg = document.getElementById("resultImg");
const Download = document.getElementById("Download");
```

![Button actions](https://cloud-izk2xul9w.vercel.app/0buttonactions.png)

> #### Defining the generateMockup() function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Defining the `generateMockup()` function

```

> In order to generate the mockups, we will be defining the generateMockup() function which is called when the 'Generate Mockup' button is pressed. Create a function called generateMockup() using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to generate the mockups, we will be defining the `generateMockup()` function which is called when the 'Generate Mockup' button is pressed.

```

```javascript
const generateMockup = () => {
// Function definition here
}
```

> Now, assign the values of `websiteAddress` amd `color` to the value from the text input field using :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, assign the values of `websiteAddress` and `color` to the value from the text input field using :

```

```

#### Fetching the mockup image using an API end point
Inside the generateMockup() function, use the following line of code to fetch the mockup image from the API end point :

```javascript
const mockup ="https://2s9e3bif52.execute-api.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/production/screenshot?url=" +websiteAdress +"&color=" +bgColor;
```

The above line appends the website address (`websiteAddress`) and the background color entered by the user to the end point of the API to fetch the image of the required mockup. The link to the required mockup is assiged to `mockup`.

You can optionally print the URL of the mockup image using :

```javascript
console.log(mockup);
```

Your code should be similar to this as of now :

```javascript
const resultImg = document.getElementById("resultImg");
const Download = document.getElementById("Download");

const generateMockup = () => {
  const websiteAdress = document.getElementById("websiteAdress").value;
  const bgColor = document.getElementById("bgColor").value;
  const mockup ="https://2s9e3bif52.execute-api.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/production/screenshot?url=" +websiteAdress +"&color=" +bgColor;
  console.log(mockup);

>   resultImg.src = mockup;

Reviewer: this directly appeared in the final code

};
```

#### Adding the download functionality

> To allow users download the mockup image by pressing the download button, include the following code inside the `generateMockup()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow users to download the mockup image by pressing the download button, include the following code inside the `generateMockup()` function.

```

    websiteAdress;
  console.log(mockup);
  resultImg.src = mockup;

  Download.addEventListener("click", function () {
    window.open(mockup);
  });
};
```
</details>

And finally, the coding part is done!

## Part 5: The End

You can try running the code by pressing the *'Run'* button on the top. You will see the preview of the website mockup generator in the right side pane.

![Pressing the run button](https://cloud-kk7f3ujxb.vercel.app/0mockuprun.gif)

Hurray! Cheers on building your own website mockup generator.

![Man celebrating](https://media.giphy.com/media/6nuiJjOOQBBn2/giphy.gif)

Here are some of the mockups that I made :

![Mockup of my portfolio](https://cloud-39p70jl8k.vercel.app/0mockup2.png)

![Mockup of Hack Club website](https://cloud-etbe898rq.vercel.app/0mockup1.png)

## What's next? 🚀

![Thinking man](https://media.giphy.com/media/d3mlE7uhX8KFgEmY/giphy.gif)

You are free to customize and contribute to the website mockup generator! You can consider trying out the below if you are interested :

- Customize the styles with your own CSS to make the mockup generator look better
- Add watermark to the mockup

> - Add more window frames

Reviewer: 3 examples links are required
